Jimmy Cui: Yeah, let me get more clear, say from the jambox,…
Presenter-B:  Yeah.
Jimmy Cui: we have a loud service account. But I want this a lot of denied my own user accounts. So what if I access the Gem box, then from the Gem box are accessed. The resource.
Jimmy Cui:  Will that be allowed or denied? Because my user account is denied, but I'm using the Gem box, which is a lot.
Presenter-B: Correct. Yeah, you're going to be using that jump boxes are identity.
Jimmy Cui:  I mean, so myself, maybe that account is denied, but I can still use the gem box.
Presenter-B:  Correct, you could use that jump boxes identity. As long as that identity is part of the ingress rule. Yeah. Yeah. Correct.
Jimmy Cui:  Okay, so talk about the IP. If my public IP is denied but the jump box is allowed. So, connect your access from the Gem box.
Presenter-B: Correct. E You could log into that jump box and using that jump boxes identity. You know that service account you would be x be able to access the cloud storage bucket. But you would not be able to login as your own cloud user,…
Jimmy Cui: Yeah.
Jimmy Cui:  That's right.
Presenter-B: and Try using your identity from the jump box.
Jimmy Cui: So, it looks like we have some hiking way.
Presenter-B: You have to use it. Yeah.
Jimmy Cui: You know, to allow some,…
Presenter-B: Yeah. Correct.
Jimmy Cui: you know, restrict users. Right. Okay.
Presenter-B: Yeah, yeah, you can get very granular, I recommend actually creating a spreadsheet of your perimeters, what's inside of those parameters?
Jimmy Cui:  Hmm.
Presenter-B: What services, you want to protect, and what ingress and egress rules? You want to create for each perimeter? Um, and you can get very granular because you can basically specify only, these service accounts are able to talk to the API in the perimeter. And only these service accounts within the parameter are able to get the data out. It, you know, the sub data movement. Yeah and…
Jimmy Cui: Yeah.
Presenter-B: it's it's a really good way to basically let's say somebody steals your service account keys that you used to deploy using, you know, terraform you know, they could run those, you know, they could run terraform from their workstation, you…
Jimmy Cui: Right.
Presenter-B: using that service account keys. But with excess levels, I can specify that. Hey,
Presenter-B: This and you know, ingress rules in the parameters, you can only specific. You can specify that only this service account can come from. This allowed,…
Jimmy Cui:  Number box.
Presenter-B: yeah from a jump box, or from like your best and host or from your organizations, you know, allowed list IP addresses. So, it gives like another layer of protection above.
Jimmy Cui:  Yeah, makes sense.
Presenter-B: I am because I am, it's really about identities. What am I allowed to do in GCP here with VPC service controls. Okay, where can I come from to talk to the Google APIs? And what data can I get out once I'm inside of the perimeter?
Jimmy Cui: Uh-huh, probably one more question. Let's say I have a host project having three, shared Vpcs.
Jimmy Cui: I think in every service project, I can see those three Vpcs. Right. So…
Presenter-B: Correct.
Jimmy Cui: what if I want to restrict HEY for Service for Service Project A you can access VPC. A only can we do that by our service control?
Presenter-B:  Ah,
Presenter-B: You could I know you definitely can do that with im Because you're specifying. You know, what service account or identity can have access to that particular sub-network or VPC in a host project. You could add the VPC to be part of the perimeter.
Jimmy Cui:  Okay.
Presenter-B: So only resources in this VPC can talk to the APIs, in this parameter. So, any compute instance on this network would be allowed to talk to cloud storage in this perimeter.
Jimmy Cui: Yeah.
Presenter-B: if you had something in a different VPC, It would not be allowed in this case. I have to go in here and add the VPC in order for traffic to be able to to be allowed.
Jimmy Cui: Cool. Oh we have several members.
Presenter-B:  Yeah.
Jimmy Cui: Still on here. Any question from you? Let's
Presenter-B:  Well, thank you guys for your that's all good. Right?
Josh Penalosa: Not.
Josh Penalosa: I was just saying done for me. Thank you very much, Mike.
Presenter-B: Thank you, Josh. Yeah, thank you guys for holding on for, you know, half hour past meeting and, you know, listening to me talk about VPC service controls. Hopefully you learn something. You…
01:25:00
Jimmy Cui: Yeah.
Presenter-B: let me know if you have any questions. They're not that harder pain in the ass to work with, but once you understand them, once you start playing with them. They're not that hard things start to make sense. Especially once you ensure that you don't like yourself out of the service and by the way up, if you ever protect it with Strep project, In the foundation. Make sure that you're access levels allow access for terraform to get into the bootstrap project to update, you know, resources or like your remotes state back-end bucket because I've had that happen to me where I protected that Booth strip project, I protected the cloud storage.
Presenter-B:  Service, but I never added my public IP to the access level. So, I basically locked myself out of terraform for that organization and I had to go through the console and, you know, unlock myself So, just an FYI. Cool.
Jimmy Cui: Yep. Yep. Thank you so much. Mike for the one of our sharing. Yeah, we'll learn something from you.
Presenter-B:  Thank you. Thank you, appreciate.
Jimmy Cui: Cool. Thank you everyone for joy. I'll see you next time. Bye.
Josh Penalosa: Bye everyone.
Presenter-B:  Bye.
Presenter-A: Thank you.
Jonathan Moisan: Thanks. Bye.
Jimmy Cui:  Thank you.
Meeting ended after 01:26:28 👋